####FitBit Case Study 
Keanu Carbon

Ask:
Analyze the FitBit dataset to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices and identify growth opportunities. Determine how Bellabeat might improve one of its products and present your recommendations
Stakeholders
Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s co founder and Chief Creative Officer 
Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team 
Bellabeat marketing analytics team 
Initial Questions:
1.     What does a typical day look like for FitBit users?
2.     How strong is the relationship between daily calories and weight? Daily steps and calories
3.     Is there a relationship between sleep and weight

Prepare:
The data is stored here and will be imported into BigQuery for my analysis. 
ROCCC Analysis
·       Reliable – Low: The data was collected from 30 consenting FitBit users. The small sample size might cause limitations and biases in the analysis. 
·       Original – Low: The data was collected through Amazon Mechanical Turk, a third party.
·       Comprehensive - High: A large amount of data was collected across datasets including daily activity intensity, calories used, daily steps taken, daily sleep time and weight record (across both narrow and wide data formats).
·       Current – Medium: The data was collected about seven years ago at the point of my analysis, but I consider the data relatively current as advancement sin wearable fitness products and consumer habits might not have dramatically changed during that time
·       Cited – High: The data source is well documented.
Data Selection
The data is overwhelming and in some cases, redundant since both narrow and wide data formats are shared for some of the datasets. My first filtering task will be to filter out the wide datasets and focus on the narrow. 
Furthermore, I will focus on the following datasets to answer my initial questions through my analysis: 
daily_activity.csv
sleep_day.csv
weight_log_info.csv
 
Process:
I will be using Excel and BigQuery to clean and filter the data and Tableau to visualize the data. Before uploading my datasets into BigQuery, I used Excel to pre-clean the data. This step was necessary as the Datetime format in the files included AM/PM which could not be parsed by BigQuery. To troubleshoot this problem, I used Excel to reformat the Datetime into 24-hour time, which allowed me to preserve the reliability of the data.
My next cleaning step was to verify the consistency of the data using a “COUNT(DISTINCT (Id))” function to ensure all selected datasets had data from all 30 users. This step was taken for each of my datasets, and this is what was discovered:
daily_activity.csv = 33 unique user ids
sleep_day.csv = 24 unique user ids
weight_log_info.csv = 8 unique user ids

The final step in my cleaning process is to verify that the Id numbers are consistent across each table. Having the number of rows in each table, I decided to use an inner join. I found this process to be resource intensive, which required me to inner join only two tables at a time. This is an area for me to improve my troubleshooting.


Analyze:
First, I wanted to understand how the sleep feature was used. To do this, I executed the following queries:


My findings from the sleep dataset indicated that only 15 of the 24 users who submitted sleep records, used the sleep feature on their device. Furthermore, only half of the total 30 users in the study used the sleep feature at least every other day.
 
Next, I wanted to look at how users tracked their weight across the study. Here’s my query and what I found:

Having queried the data, I’ve decided to no longer consider the weight_log_info.csv dataset in my analysis. Since there are only 8 unique Ids in the data sets, I was curious to understand what sort of change in weight users recorded. Weight change seemed to be minimalistic and consequently challenging to derive any meaningful insights from. 
 
Finally, I will be analyzing the most comprehensive table, Daily_Activity.csv. and perform joins to assess the relationships between my datasets. My first step was to aggregate the data and attribute it to unique user ids.

Note: The results only show the first 10 results but, as expected the query returned 33 rows.
This query made the dataset more digestible and allowed me to further analyze the data set's relationship to sleep records. The Syntax is below:

Note: The results only show the first 10 results but, as expected the query returned 24 rows. The Inner Join results on 24 rows since there are only 24 unique ids in the sleep_day.csv.
This table gives us more insight into the relationship between the tenacity of daily activity and sleep time. A noticeable trend exists as the activity increases, the number of sleep records increase as well.
 
Share: 
To visually represent my findings, I created a dashboard using Tableau. Here are some of my findings:
·       Users log lightly active minutes the most. 
·       The number of steps a user takes and the has no significant relationship with the user’s weight.
·       The sleep feature is commonly used in at least half of users.
·       There’s a positive trend between total steps and the number of minutes slept by users. 

Tableau Dashboard
Act:
After analyzing the FitBit Fitness Tracker data, I came up with some recommendations for Bellabeat marketing strategy based on trends in smart device usage.
Most participants are lightly active. Bellabeat should tie its product features like sleep, weight, and steps to how customers are already using the product. For example, integrating more light active forms to increase step count throughout the day.
To help users better track their weight, Bellabeat might consider educating customers on the importance of diet and exercise and how their product can help.
Simplify the weight entry process to boost use of the feature.
Showing the benefit of entering information will provide more accurate results for the user. 
Design promotional campaigns focused on features that users are consistently engaging with like Step count, distance tracking, calories, and sleep. 
 
